# UCI Forest Fires Regression analysis with PyTorch

The data we are using to predict the creation and intensity of forest fires is acquired from the UCI machine learning repo. It consists of 517 observations of forest fires (or wildfires) from Montesinho Park, located in the northeast region of Portugal. There are 13 different variables involved in our data set, varying between weather factors, geographic location and the severity of the fire. The location of the fire was recorded on a grid map of Montesinho Park. X is the x-axis spatial coordinate within the park map, and Y is the same, but with the y-axis special coordinate. The month and day that the fire occurred in is recorded as well. The Fine Fuel Moisture Code (FFMC) denotes the moisture content surface litter and influences ignition and fire spread. The Duff Moisture Code (DMC) and Drought Code (DC) represent the moisture content of shallow and deep organic layers, which also affect fire intensity. The Initial Spread Index (ISI) is a score that correlates with fire velocity spread. Certain weather factors were also recorded, including: temperature in Celsius degrees, relative humidity in percent, wind speed in kilometers per hour, and outside rain in millimeters to meters squared 30 minutes before the ignition of a wildfire. Lastly, the area of the burned section of the forest is recorded in hectares. The bulk of the data involving weather characteristics is pulled from the meteorological station database. The BUI and FWI were discarded because they are dependent of the previous values.

Ignore the package installations in the beginning.

The model uses a L1 loss function to account for outliers and model training uses a SGD optimizer with a batch size of 32. Model was trained through 100 epochs with learning rate 1e-4. Linear regression may not be the best model to train a model for this problem, using a model like XGBoost would be optimal.
